[{"title": "It's a quasi-history of the Targaryens", "rating": 4.0, "body": "Okay... so I bought this after I watched the first episode of 'House of the Dragon' as it peaked my interest in the whole story. But I still have to question George R R (what's with the 2 R's anyway?) Martin and wonder, \"Is he ever going to finish the Song of Ice and Fire series... I mean, he's not getting any younger and why does he seem to be doing everything other than finish the last two books... c'mon man, fix the horrible 8th season ending and the hack job finale of 'Game of Thrones'!Anyway, enough of that... if you are intent of following the Targaryens and their rise and fall, then this is the book for you. It has everything you're looking for in a fantasy story, battles on dragons, talking about dragons, flying dragons, naming dragons, stealing dragon eggs, backstabbing, betrayals, births, deaths, uncles sleeping with their nieces, more dragons, joists, scowling looks, and did I mention... there are lots and lots of dragons!!!So grab yourself, settle down in a comfy chair with a warm blanket, your favourite cup of ale and read away... and then, 'fertheluvofgawd', George... please finish your long awaited, sorely anticipated and direly needed final two books the finish off The Song of Ice and Fire... we all need to know that you actually intent to do it and aren't just fooling us with all these other books... oh yeah, before I forget... don't make Dany go nuts on Drogo... she deserved better... and John should have been the one to kill the Night King!"}, {"title": "well written", "rating": 5.0, "body": "well written with a good storyline. even though this is a fictional story it was so well written it felt real"}, {"title": "Fire & Blood", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Great book, felt like reading all at once but i manage to last it 1month.Great story. Blood & cheese shoked me, Jaehaerys the Conciliator was my favorite king by far.A must if you like a song of fire and ice, or game of throne, or house of the dragon.p.s. Please winds of winter , dream of spring Come to ME"}, {"title": "Great book!", "rating": 4.0, "body": "Very well written and an interesting mix of history and narrative. I give it 4 stars as it's hard to follow at times likely due to all the incest. We'll worth the read if you love game of thrones"}, {"title": "Arrived as advertised/expected", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Brand new book arrived promptly, solid buying experience. Just finished the show so i will be reading it soon."}, {"title": "Great prequel", "rating": 4.0, "body": "Adds some wonderfully entertaining detail to the early years of the Targaryen dynasty. Martin's facility for character and plot twists shine through. Thoroughly enjoyed it.One star removed because WHERE THE HELL IS WINDS OF WINTER?!?"}, {"title": "Finally starting to understand where it all began!", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Outstanding fast paced book, with the right amount of detail!"}, {"title": "Fantastic!", "rating": 5.0, "body": "I love this book but I had to stop reading it\u2026 House of the Dragon is airing now and I didn\u2019t want all the spoilers lol! But I\u2019ll quickly continue as soon as season 1 concludes.I\u2019m not a huge fan of fiction so I really like that it\u2019s written as more of a history from the Maestre\u2019s perspective (and maybe that of the more salacious Mushroom). I\u2019d suspect it will be a good read for those who prefer fiction too.Would highly recommend this book!"}, {"title": "Great read", "rating": 5.0, "body": "A great story that flows nicely. I couldn\u2019t put it down!"}, {"title": "Pretty good:)", "rating": 4.0, "body": "Was enjoyable.  Could have been made into a couple of three books with a bit more detail in the story."}, {"title": "Book is great, arrived damaged", "rating": 3.0, "body": "Aside from the grotesque beliefs and inadequate prose of its coauthors, I am able to tenuously recommend, provided you're not expecting much, not heralding it as true GRRM, and ok with Wikipedia style narrative vs ASOIAF."}, {"title": "Not entirely dull", "rating": 3.0, "body": "This isn\u2019t Martin at his worst. It\u2019s entertaining enough. But it often reads like a love letter to itineraries and proper nouns."}, {"title": "Addicting book!!", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Read the whole thing in 4 days and not a big reader. Couldn't recommend it more!"}, {"title": "Love it", "rating": 5.0, "body": "So happy it came, took a bit longer but worth the wait! So good"}, {"title": "Good Product", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Book looks brand new"}, {"title": "Reads like a history book but still interesting", "rating": 4.0, "body": "As a fan of the novels, I did enjoy diving more into the history. Although much of the first part of the book especially repeats what we have learned from the DVD/Bluray extras, there is new information throughout. It skims the surface often but we do get a general overview and some details. I will warn potential readers this reads like a history book not like a story. If you are looking for an exciting read like the novels and short stories, this is not it. If you are the type who enjoys learning information, say reading a textbook or encyclopedia, this is for you. I feel many readers would be bored to tears. Not an exciting read but worthwhile for fans."}, {"title": "This is background to The Game of Thrones.  It is more about places and times than people.", "rating": 3.0, "body": "I enjoyed all of Game Thrones because the characters get you in.  You either like them, like them a lot or dislike them.  That is what is missing for Fire and Blood.  The characters in this book do not draw you in like that.  It is a history of Westeros before Game of Throne happens.  It really reads like a history book especially in the beginning.  I enjoyed it but if this was the first of the books I read about The Game of Thrones I wonder if I would have read the series"}, {"title": "Good history/background for fans of ASOIAF and Game of Thrones", "rating": 4.0, "body": "It's a somewhat captivating history of the Targaryen rule in Westeros. Unlike the ASOIAF novels it is not written in the first person, but as a third-person history in past tense. This style makes for a quicker read but it lacks the intensity of the first person novels."}, {"title": "This is a history book first, fantasy novel second", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Great Book, but please realize this not for everyone.This is definitely more for a history crowd than the average reader, the kind of person who likes the Silmarillion, so if you like Charles Oman, Edward Gibbon, Barbara Tuchman and Tom Holland, then you\u2019ll like this book. If you think history is boring, then stay clear.Otherwise, this adds extra depth to the already rich world of a Song of Ice and Fire, adding many little details that really improve on the larger picture. It\u2019s a neat idea, a fantasy-history book, and I would like to see more like it (Maybe for other properties, like the Elder Scrolls, or a completely new world we\u2019ve never seen before.Would highly recommend"}, {"title": "Interesting history of the time before \"Game of Thrones\"", "rating": 4.0, "body": "Enjoyed the book as a history, but lacks the character development and story lines of GOT.Some readers might find it hard to get into, but it grows on you, and provides an interesting background tothe later books. The illustrations are excellent and beautifully drawn, and makes the book worth keeping."}, {"title": "A captivating read", "rating": 5.0, "body": "A welcome relief after not completing the Song of Ice and Fire series. Spectacular story, great detail and like GRRM style, full of cliff hangers."}, {"title": "Coin abim\u00e9 mais tr\u00e8s bonne qualit\u00e9!", "rating": 4.0, "body": "Assez bonne condition, livraison rapide et soign\u00e9e. Seul d\u00e9faut, coin abim\u00e9."}, {"title": "I like the UK book version better, and it's cheaper! :(", "rating": 3.0, "body": "Bought this as soon as it came out, only to be told by friends who are back in Europe that the UK version doesn't cost as much as North American one, has a better Targ sigil and some other differences are noticeable. Bummer.I am still reading it, and I am so happy this came out as I always wanted to read about Targs in more detail! Now if only I could live to see ASOIAF completed... \ud83d\ude44"}, {"title": "I cant wait for the tv series!", "rating": 4.0, "body": "I love it. It's a bit dry in some places bc it reads like a history book but I'm enjoying it and the illustrations!"}, {"title": "D&D ruined GoT", "rating": 4.0, "body": "Great book - it's a shame that the whole franchise is tarnished by the horribly incompetent writing of seasons 7 & 8 of the TV show though."}, {"title": "A must read for Targaryen Loyalist. Absolutely Love It", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Exactly what I wanted. A must read for all Targaryen Loyalist. Centuries of History about the Targaryen Royals and their dragons. A good read for fans of Game of Thrones or The World of Ice and Fire novel series. Was a little disappointed with my cover arriving less than perfect but that\u2019s not a reflection of the product itself and so I give it 5 stars :)"}, {"title": "Good", "rating": 4.0, "body": "Good but rehashes alot from AWOIAF. Also finish the God damn series old man, tired of this filler bs. Unless it's more Dunk and egg, those stories are A+"}, {"title": "Learned About This From The Author On A Late Night Talk Show :-)", "rating": 5.0, "body": "My son loves Game of Thrones and this will be a great graduation gift for passing Basic and Land Training with the CAF. He now has his first posting and this will be a great way to pass time away from family. I look forward to Part 2. I love Amazon Prime. Even with the Canada Post strike, it arrived just as described. :-) (2 days)"}, {"title": "Great", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Good reading, interesting"}, {"title": "Good book", "rating": 4.0, "body": "Good book  lots of background  information  on the dynasty, but would be nice if he finished game of thrones series!"}, {"title": "Meh...reads like a history textbook", "rating": 3.0, "body": "If you're looking for a prequel to the original stories this isn't it. While this book is very well written it reads like a bit like a school textbook. I read the book all the way through and can't say I disliked it, but can't really say I liked it either."}, {"title": "It is a good book", "rating": 5.0, "body": "It is an interesting book with lots of information and names to remember. Knowing this has nothing to do with a song of ice and fire, it was a good book but I think many expect the same as the sequel"}, {"title": "A must read!", "rating": 5.0, "body": "If you like the universe of ASOIAF, it's definitely a book you should read! Before, a part of the content of that book was a few short stories in different books and now all that content is gathered in this work and more developed. I'll buy the second part when it will come out."}, {"title": "A list of a thousand names!", "rating": 2.0, "body": "Unfortunately Martin chose to list thousands of names and often many dozens of times as he filled in a story chronologically between the names. My head is buzzing with names and a little bit of the story of the demise of the Dragons."}, {"title": "Great feedback for the series", "rating": 4.0, "body": "The lack of consistent dialogue threw me off but it is Rich in content and valuable information."}, {"title": "Life is too short for a bad book", "rating": 1.0, "body": "The dreaded droning history professor who succeeded in making Dragons dull\u2026 If you want only want a catalogue of facts this is the book for you."}, {"title": "Very interesting.  Great summer read.", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Fun book. Delves into the Targaryen history with all the classic raunch we've come to love."}, {"title": "It's not a book... It's a ?", "rating": 2.0, "body": "At first I thought I was reading a foreword.  But he keeps ploughing ahead in the third person.  It really seems like a botched fictional historical  lesson...Someone please tell me it gets better further in.  I am feeling sucked in."}, {"title": "Plodding", "rating": 2.0, "body": "I was quite excited to read this work but made it through by will alone. No grand relationships were developed between me and the characters, a disappointment."}, {"title": "This a telling of the Targaryens history. It's a not a prequel or short stories.", "rating": 5.0, "body": "What a fantastic read! Before you buy the book do your research and make sure it's something you want to read. The history of the Targaryens is so detailed and enthralling. I feel like I'm reading real history.The 1 star reviews are from people who didnt do their research on the book before purchasing which is a shame!"}, {"title": "Beautiful hard cover book", "rating": 5.0, "body": "As a GOT fan I purchased this for my daughter who is also a major GOT fan.  The prequel looks fascinating.  Luckily she is a fast reader so I'll get to read it by New Years Day!  Paper quality is good."}, {"title": "Perfect condition, good stuff !", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Perfect condition, good stuff !"}, {"title": "Great read", "rating": 4.0, "body": "Found it interesting and a quick and easy read. Recommend it."}, {"title": "Buyer beware", "rating": 1.0, "body": "I knew this was not going to be the next installment in the Song of Ice and Fire series, however, I did not realize that it is written like an 'old school history book', with names, places and events coming at you like water from a fire hose.  I barely made it to 5% and recognized I was forcing myself to read it; and I doubt I will ever open it again.  I sense that readers will either love it or hate it, with little middle ground.  I am writing this review as a warning to others that you understand what it is before you buy it.  I didn't and wish I hadn't wasted my money.  If it's what you are looking for, then go for it."}, {"title": "great book, short delivery time", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Got this book the next day of ordering it (without purposely requesting next-day delivery). The book is excellent. You probably have to be a fan of GM previous works (on GOT) to really appreciate its content."}, {"title": "Good book", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Christmas gift"}, {"title": "For the curious fans", "rating": 5.0, "body": "A good read with depth and detail in characters histories. Some questions of pre baratheon era answered as well along with dragons, their power and their eventual demise from Westeros."}, {"title": "Amazing!", "rating": 5.0, "body": "A great way to fill the void waiting for the sixth book in the A Song of Ice and Fire series."}, {"title": "A great historical read", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Reads more like a history book in comparison to the Game of Thrones books, but it's still classic George R.R. Martin. Filled with tons of interesting back story on the Targaryens."}, {"title": "Excellent, prompt delivery", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Amazon delivered, as promised"}, {"title": "Intricate History", "rating": 5.0, "body": "I\u2019m always hungry for more content from ASOIAF and this book did not disappoint. It\u2019s very helpful to have the book of maps as well while you read through this."}, {"title": "Good read", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Good book"}, {"title": "Great read!", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Really enjoyed some extra GOT history!  It took no time to get through!  So good!  On to the next one!"}, {"title": "Good Song of Ice and Fire, side book", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Good Song of Ice and Fire, side book, while we wait for book winds of winter."}, {"title": "Good gift for GOT fans", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Got this book for my girlfriend who is a massive game of thrones fan, she was ecstatic."}, {"title": "Love the book!", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Love the book!If you loved the GOT books then you love this!"}, {"title": "Good price", "rating": 3.0, "body": "Gonna start reading asap"}, {"title": "Super", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Rien \u00e0 sp\u00e9cifier, je suis satisfaite"}, {"title": "Good book", "rating": 5.0, "body": "I bought this for my wife for Christmas. She's a game of thrones fan and can't put it down."}, {"title": "A book worth reading", "rating": 5.0, "body": "I read it all and understand everything about the series and I am very happy and it is entertaining book history of game of thrones and dance of dragons and how it all started loved it ."}, {"title": "Best book ever written by George RR", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Could not put this down by far the best of his Westeros seriesCannot wait for the next in the series"}, {"title": "Great book for every A Song Of Ice And Fire fan", "rating": 5.0, "body": "This book is a pleasure to read. On each page you learn a bit more of Westeros history, this is really fun."}, {"title": "Facts not a story", "rating": 3.0, "body": "Difficult to follow the format."}, {"title": "Fun read", "rating": 5.0, "body": "It\u2019s an excellent history book for those interested in Targaryen history"}, {"title": "I love it", "rating": 5.0, "body": "I loved it. I'm a fan of ASOIAF. I LOVE IT."}, {"title": "Exciting to have a new G of T book!", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Got this for my husband for Christmas.  He is already well into it and loving it."}, {"title": "Damaged book", "rating": 2.0, "body": "I love the book, but was a shame that the cover was very scuffed and ripped at the top. I guess that is the price you pay for ordering books online."}, {"title": "In Love", "rating": 5.0, "body": "great book always wanted to know the Targaryen history and I\u2019m in love with the storytelling"}, {"title": "Great book - great gift", "rating": 5.0, "body": "I gave this book to a fan of Game of thrones and she just loves it!"}, {"title": "Great company to deal with", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Just started the book and love it can't wait for a series to come of it."}, {"title": "Amazing Prequel", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Such a spectacular read. I cant put it down. GEORGE is an epic writer!!"}, {"title": "Good read.", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Perfect addition to book collection."}, {"title": "A great read", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Love it, enjoying it immensely, and it came very quickly."}, {"title": "I really like it", "rating": 5.0, "body": "I am still reading it.great book"}, {"title": "This is not a story book, it\u2019s a lore book.", "rating": 5.0, "body": "I love lore books, and this one is awesome, nice interior art as well."}, {"title": "Perfect condition on arrival", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Solid product and quick delivery"}, {"title": "New ASOIAF history", "rating": 5.0, "body": "A bookmark for true ASOIAF nerds, probably boring for the average reader."}, {"title": "Disappointed", "rating": 1.0, "body": "I have read all of the books from a Song of Ice and Fire, including the history book. The book, Fire & Blood simply the same information from the history book just told in a drawn out boring way. I am so Disappointed! The chapters are extremely long.  I have read about 100 pages into the book and have come \u00e0cross zero new story line that was not covered in the History of Westeros book."}, {"title": "Great book", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Great book"}, {"title": "Love it !", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Love it ! Come in good shape"}, {"title": "What's most important to know about what?", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Fire and Ice is great. Tell the morron to finish Thrones!"}, {"title": "Not of interestnfor the fans of GOT", "rating": 2.0, "body": "I am a big fan of Game of Thrones. I had read the books prior the serie started.  I was dissapointed with this book. Story is not to the level expected"}, {"title": "Excellent!", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Fanastic fictional history!"}, {"title": "Great book", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Great book"}, {"title": "hubby material", "rating": 5.0, "body": "My Hubby loves this book!"}, {"title": "Boring-1000 characters", "rating": 2.0, "body": "Huge GOT lover. Figured this book would be as interesting as the first books. It took me 2 months to finish. The way it was written was boring at best. So many characters and filler. This book could have been 300 pages"}, {"title": "Lots of information", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Awesome history and info"}, {"title": "Excellent", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Please hurry for the next release"}, {"title": "On time delivery", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Good read, can't put it down."}, {"title": "Arrived very quickly- next day", "rating": 5.0, "body": "The book was a Christmas gift."}, {"title": "Quick, easy, perfect.", "rating": 5.0, "body": "As expected, quick, great transaction."}, {"title": "Exactly as described.", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Received book in perfect condition."}, {"title": "Great read", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Love the detail"}, {"title": "Great!", "rating": 5.0, "body": "George delivers as always!"}, {"title": "super", "rating": 5.0, "body": "loved it"}, {"title": "Excellent book!", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Excellent book! Shipped fast!!"}, {"title": "GAME OF THRONES! GAME OF THRONES! GAME OF THRONES!", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Fast delivery awesome book!"}, {"title": "Fire and blood", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Great writing!"}, {"title": "Thumbs up", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Husband likes it"}, {"title": "tr\u00e8s bon produit", "rating": 5.0, "body": "tr\u00e8s bon produit"}, {"title": "GRRM magic", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Amazing. Buy it."}, {"title": "Nice!", "rating": 5.0, "body": "I love it!"}, {"title": "Yeah..but..", "rating": 2.0, "body": "Nice drawings but the story is more a historical records: not my style."}, {"title": "Wow", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Wow"}, {"title": "What the first guy said...boring", "rating": 1.0, "body": "It's incredibly dry. I thought it'd be a brand new story, like a prequel..no.. it's a fantasy history book. Chronological dates, so many names to remember. I lasted 5% myself. Sometimes you get into it but then you realize it's a fake history book and you're just like aw man... If you enjoy it, good.. I sure didn't"}, {"title": "Wonderful", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Wonderful"}, {"title": "This book is missing pages in the download", "rating": 1.0, "body": "I want to read this book but it is missing pages in the download. I dont recommend wasting your money."}, {"title": "Overrated", "rating": 1.0, "body": "This author is so overrated. You could take out half the writing in this book and not lose any of the essential plot line. He\u2019s too long winded."}, {"title": "A Tedious Slog", "rating": 1.0, "body": "A cross between Tolkien's ' Simarillion \" and the Old Testaments' Chronicles .  A tough meandering tedious slog of a book .  Buyer beware"}, {"title": "Boring", "rating": 1.0, "body": "I really enjoyed the ASOIAF series and the Dunk & Egg trilogy, often read through chapiters and chapiters without pausing. This book, however, I've never finish any chapiter in fewer then 3 sittings."}, {"title": "Not worth it", "rating": 1.0, "body": "\ud83d\udc4e\ud83c\udffb"}, {"title": "Reads like a very interesting history book", "rating": 4.0, "body": "Like most have said here, this book reads somewhat like a history book. I only wish history class was this interesting, I would have paid more attention. Early on you are bombarded with names, dates and more that you would never be able to remember, but if you hold on a bit longer a storyline emerges, along with some healthy wit. Keeping track of the characters can be challenging sometimes. But I am half way through the book and am entirely engaged in it. My only issue is that I am not sure what to read next in the series as there is so much out there now. I originally thought this was book one, which apparently is not the case."}, {"title": "Loved it", "rating": 4.0, "body": "I\u2019ve read a lot of reviews of people complaining about this book and the majority of them had one thing in common: they didn\u2019t know what the book was supposed to be. They wanted a novel and got a history book. Just so happens I\u2019m a huge history buff and majored in it in university. As a result this book was right up my alley. I loved it. If you\u2019re looking for another novel this isn\u2019t it. If you want a more detailed history of the Targaryen dynasty then this is it. Personally I loved it and am looking forward to volume 2."}, {"title": "History Textbook", "rating": 3.0, "body": "This is not a story, its a historical record of Westeros."}, {"title": "Written as History", "rating": 5.0, "body": "\u201cFire and Blood\u201d purports to be Volume 1 of the history of the Targaryens in Westeros, from the Conquest of Aegon I to the end of the regency of Aegon III, a period of roughly 135 years or so.  As such, it reads as most histories do, concentrating on the high-born, wars and castle intrigues, while including numerous lists of people involved in those activities without much differentiation between most of the names.  But as ever, GRRM\u2019s prose is compelling and even its great length (709 pages) isn\u2019t daunting once one gets into the rhythm of the thing.  Along the way, we learn some things, such as how it came to be that the Targaryens were the only House that had (and flew) dragons; how and why women were excluded from the succession in most places, and much more.  I\u2019ve been reading GRRM since, oh, \u201cA Song for Lya\u201d back in the mid-1970s, and am always happy to read more.  This book is just the first half of the history, however, and every day spent on this and on its sequel is a day when the author is not working on \u201cThe Winds of Winter.\u201d  The first book in A Song of Ice and Fire came out when I moved from California to Canada, and I\u2019ve been here 25 years now!  That said, I\u2019m pleased with \u201cFire and Blood,\u201d and I\u2019d recommend it to anyone interested in the world GRRM has created."}, {"title": "Depraved writings", "rating": 1.0, "body": "Full of degeneracy"}, {"title": "Must Read if you Love GOT", "rating": 5.0, "body": "To all the readers who said they didn\u2019t make it past 5%... you don\u2019t know what you\u2019re missing. I remember when I started reading the book, the first little bit was like a boring history lesson. Once you get past those first few pages the rest is amazing!!!!! I could not put it down! It\u2019s just like reading the other GOT books, but with lots of Targaryens and DRAGONS!! Characters and events we\u2019ve only heard about, this book paints a picture for them all. It was so good, I could read it all over again! I can\u2019t wait till HBO come out with a series for this!!"}, {"title": "No shipping!!", "rating": 5.0, "body": "So this was a great book, the reading is fantastic and I have already listened to it twice.  The very best part was that since it is a downloadable purchase, it did not have to be shipping by the horrible company intelcom, which Amazon continues to use despite years of complaints."}, {"title": "An entertaining expansion on the histories and lore of ASOIAF", "rating": 5.0, "body": "This novel is written from the perspective of a Maester of the Citadel of Oldtown, who has compiled information from previous Westerosi sources. Definitely adds some variety to the reading as well. Highly recommended read."}, {"title": "It\u2019s really a bunch of short stories", "rating": 5.0, "body": "Great read"}, {"title": "excellent product", "rating": 5.0, "body": "good book"}, {"title": "A boring and poorly written history of the Targaryens", "rating": 1.0, "body": "A boring and poorly written fantasy history book.  I only managed to get to page 91.  Some maps and lineages would have helped to follow instead of portraits."}, {"title": "Crude and boring. A disappointment.", "rating": 1.0, "body": "Disappointing, crude and boring. The book has nothing of the beauty of A Song of Ice and Fire (the book series). It is a series of facts, stated plainly with even some discrepancies.  One of the worst books I have read. Grab a medieval history book and read it; at least it would be more useful. My living room turns into a classroom every time I start reading Fire & Blood."}, {"title": "Dry boring history text!!!!", "rating": 1.0, "body": "Like reading a dry history text book about history that never happened. No plot, no dialogue, no character development."}, {"title": "Disappointed", "rating": 1.0, "body": "Boring!"}, {"title": "Super bon", "rating": 5.0, "body": "J\u2019ai bien aim\u00e9e super narrateur"}, {"title": "Pleasantly Surprised", "rating": 5.0, "body": "I\u2019m very happy !!! My first time purchasing a used book my biggest concern was that it might smell ..Yippee it\u2019s pretty dam close to perfect\u2026 would definitely do again\u2026"}, {"title": "Very Detailed", "rating": 5.0, "body": "I truly enjoyed this book, but for probably different reasons than most.  I love historical reading, and that is exactly what this book reads like.  There are (what feels like) about a thousand names that you will blow through--House ~this~, House ~that~, Lord of ~one thing~, Lord of ~another thing~--most of which will not be recognized (neither from GOT or HOD), but still has their place in the story.  The book starts out that way listing the histories and houses, but the middle (which is where HOD story starts) gets VERY interesting.  As with his other books, you get to the real meat of the story with this book, all the emotions, thoughts, schemes, etc., come in to play here and it is a VERY good read at this point.  After reading all the Fire & Ice books, watching GOT, and now HOD, along with this book, everything (the whole historical WORLD of the dragons) comes together and all the little pieces fit perfectly together.  What an imagination GRRM has, absolutely mind blowing!!  I wonder what his story boards look like in his writing den!?! Whoa, the family trees!  The intrigue!!!  Excellent job, George, I truly love flying through your world of Westeros, Braavos, Oldtown, Dragonskeep, all of them, thank you!"}, {"title": "Amazing", "rating": 5.0, "body": "If you are a Game of Thrones fan and waiting impatiently for the last season to start, you must read this book! I have read all Fire and Ice books multiple times and this one does not disappoint."}]2018 book by George R. R. Martin

Fire & Blood is a fantasy book by American writer George R. R. Martin and illustrated by Doug Wheatley. It tells the history of House Targaryen, the dynasty that ruled the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros in the backstory of his series A Song of Ice and Fire.[2] Although originally planned for publication after the completion of the series,[3] Martin has revealed his intent to publish the history in two volumes as the material had grown too large. The first volume was released on November 20, 2018.
The second half of this first volume (an expanded version of The Princess and the Queen) has been adapted into the HBO series House of the Dragon, a prequel to Game of Thrones.
In 2014, more than 200,000 words were removed  from the manuscript of Martin's companion book The World of Ice & Fire and were incorporated into Fire & Blood.[4]
In February 2017, Elio M. García Jr., Martin's co-author for The World of Ice & Fire, reported that he had spoken with Martin at WorldCon 75, held in 2017 in Helsinki, about the first volume of Fire & Blood. According to García, in addition to the never-published material developed for The World of Ice & Fire, Martin also created entirely new material for the book, having "worked on just fleshing out a bit" the long reign of King Jaehaerys I Targaryen, which was previously only mentioned in "Heirs of the Dragon", an unpublished text that Martin abridged in the novelette The Rogue Prince.[5]
On July 22, 2017, Martin revealed on his blog that the material for Fire & Blood had grown so large that the decision had been made to publish the histories of the Targaryen kings in two volumes. The first volume, simply called Fire & Blood, is set to cover the history of Westeros from Aegon's Conquest up to and through the regency of the boy king, Aegon III Targaryen. While the first volume of Fire & Blood has been published, the second volume was largely unwritten as of July 2017.
In April 2018, when announcing the publication date, Martin revealed the manuscript to be 989 pages long.[1] An excerpt was revealed in October 2018.[7]
Rather than a novel, Fire & Blood takes the form of a scholarly treatise about the Targaryen dynasty written by a historian within the world of A Song of Ice and Fire, Archmaester Gyldayn.[8][9][10] Gyldayn cites a variety of fictional primary sources for the historical events he describes, whose accounts sometimes conflict with each other, reflecting medieval methods of historiography and thus making Gyldayn an unreliable narrator from the reader's perspective.[11][12]
The first volume of Fire & Blood contains the following texts:
"The Targaryen Conquest": Aegon I Targaryen's conquest of the Seven Kingdoms of Westeros.[13] Published in more or less same version in The World of Ice & Fire.[7]
"The Peace of the Dragon": Aegon I's reign after his Conquest.[14][better source needed] While Aegon I's reign is briefly glossed over in The World of Ice & Fire, no parts of the text have been published before.
"The Sons of the Dragon":[15] Focuses on the lives of Aegon I's sons, King Aenys I Targaryen and King Maegor I Targaryen, ending with Maegor's death and the ascension of Aenys's son Jaehaerys I Targaryen to the throne. An abridged version of The Sons of the Dragon was released in October 2017 titled The Sons of the Dragon in the anthology The Book of Swords.[15]
"Heirs of the Dragon": Being about 17,000 words long, it focuses on the reign of Jaehaerys I Targaryen and the succession crisis following the deaths of his sons. An abridged version, The Rogue Prince, previously published in the anthology Rogues in 2014, uses the majority of this text.[16]
"The Dying of the Dragons": Being about 60,000 words in length,[16][N 1] it focuses on the great civil war known as the Dance of the Dragons, the Targaryen civil war between Rhaenyra Targaryen and her half-brother Aegon II for the throne. An abridged version of 30,000 words was included in The Princess and the Queen,[18] which was published in the anthology Dangerous Women in 2013.
"Aftermath — The Boy King and His Regents": Covering the first few years of the reign of Rhaenyra's young son Aegon III, when the realm was ruled by Aegon's regents. According to García, it is "almost as long" as The Dying of the Dragons in total word count.[16][13]
Fire & Blood is illustrated in a similar fashion to A Knight of the Seven Kingdoms. The book contains more than seventy-five black and white illustrations by Doug Wheatley.[19][1]
Fire & Blood received mixed reviews from critics. Hugo Rifkind of The Times described it as "interminable, self-indulgent crap."[9] Roisin O'Connor of The Independent faulted the book for its dry tone and stated that reading it feels like "you've been assigned a mildly interesting, but often tedious, piece of homework".[8] Publishers Weekly stated that "Martin's evocative storytelling style and gift for gripping narrative are mostly absent from this dry history".[20]
Conversely, Dan Jones of The Sunday Times praised the book, calling it "a masterpiece of popular historical fiction".[21] Similarly, Chris Lough of Tor.com described the book as "... the best Song of Ice and Fire book in 18 years",[22] a comparison to A Storm of Swords.
The HBO series House of the Dragon, a prequel to Game of Thrones, is based on material from Fire and Blood, which covers the Dance of Dragons civil war. The show is produced by Martin, Vince Gerardis, Ryan Condal, and Miguel Sapochnik; in addition, the latter two are its showrunners.[23]

American TV series or program
Action[1]
Adventure[2]
Fantasy[3]
Serial drama[4]
Created by
Ryan Condal
George R. R. Martin
Based onFire & Bloodby George R. R. MartinStarring
Paddy Considine
Matt Smith
Emma D'Arcy
Rhys Ifans
Steve Toussaint
Eve Best
Sonoya Mizuno
Fabien Frankel
Milly Alcock
Emily Carey
Graham McTavish
Matthew Needham
Jefferson Hall
Olivia Cooke
Harry Collett
Tom Glynn-Carney
Ewan Mitchell
Bethany Antonia
Phoebe Campbell
Phia Saban
Theme music composerRamin DjawadiOpening theme"Game of Thrones Theme"ComposerRamin DjawadiCountry of originUnited StatesOriginal languageEnglishNo. of seasons1No. of episodes10ProductionExecutive producers
Miguel Sapochnik
Ryan Condal
George R. R. Martin
Ron Schmidt
Jocelyn Diaz
Sara Hess
Vince Gerardis
Producers
Karen Wacker
Angus More Gordon
Alexis Raben
Kevin Lau
Production locations
Portugal
United Kingdom
Spain
United States
Cinematography
Fabian Wagner
Pepe Avila del Pino
Alejandro Martínez
Catherine Goldschmidt
Editors
Tim Porter
Selina MacArthur
Crispin Green
Chris Hunter
Running time54–68 minutesProduction companies
GRRM
Bastard Sword
1:26 Pictures Inc.
HBO Entertainment
DistributorWarner Bros. Domestic Television DistributionReleaseOriginal networkHBOPicture format
4K UHDTV HDR[a]
Dolby Vision[a]
Audio formatDolby Atmos[a]Original releaseAugust 21, 2022 (2022-08-21) –present (present)ChronologyRelatedGame of Thrones
House of the Dragon is an American fantasy drama television series created by George R. R. Martin and Ryan Condal for HBO. A prequel to Game of Thrones (2011–2019), it is the second television series in the A Song of Ice and Fire franchise. Condal and Miguel Sapochnik served as the showrunners for the first season. Based on Martin's 2018 novel Fire & Blood, the series is set about 100 years after the Seven Kingdoms are united by the Targaryen Conquest, nearly 200 years before the events of Game of Thrones, and 172 years before the birth of Daenerys Targaryen. Featuring an ensemble cast, the show portrays the events leading up to the beginning of the decline of House Targaryen, a devastating war of succession known as the "Dance of the Dragons".
House of the Dragon received a straight-to-series order in October 2019, with casting beginning in July 2020 and principal photography starting in April 2021 in the United Kingdom. The series premiered on August 21, 2022, with the first season consisting of ten episodes. Five days after its premiere, the series was renewed for a second season. Sapochnik departed as showrunner after the first season, leaving Condal to serve as the sole showrunner for the second season.
The first season received highly positive reviews, with praise towards its character development, visual effects, writing, score and performances (particularly Considine, Smith, D'Arcy, Alcock, and Cooke). However, the pacing, specifically of the time jumps, and the dark lighting of some scenes were criticized. The series premiere was watched by over 10 million viewers across the linear channels and HBO Max on the first day, the biggest in HBO's history. In January 2023, the series won the Golden Globe Award for Best Television Series – Drama.
Cast and characters[edit]
Starring[edit]
Paddy Considine as King Viserys I Targaryen (season 1): The fifth king of the Seven Kingdoms. Known as "a warm, kind, and decent man", Viserys was chosen by a council of lords to succeed his grandfather, King Jaehaerys I Targaryen, as king. Viserys is the firstborn son of King Jaehaerys' second son Prince Baelon Targaryen and his sister-wife Princess Alyssa Targaryen.
Matt Smith as Prince Daemon Targaryen: The younger brother of King Viserys I Targaryen and uncle / husband of Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen. Known as the "Rogue Prince" for his unpredictable behavior, Daemon is also a fierce warrior and wields the Valyrian steel sword Dark Sister. He is an experienced dragonrider who rides the dragon Caraxes, also known as the "Blood Wyrm".
Emma D'Arcy as Princess / Queen Rhaenyra Targaryen: King Viserys I Targaryen's daughter and heir apparent, the firstborn and only surviving child of Viserys and his first wife, Queen Aemma Arryn. She was praised as the "Realm's Delight" during her youth. She is crowned queen by her supporters, the "Blacks", after her half-brother usurped the throne. She is a dragonrider who rides the dragon Syrax.
Milly Alcock portrays young Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen (season 1).
Rhys Ifans as Ser Otto Hightower: Queen Alicent's father and the Hand of the King to King Viserys I Targaryen's small council and continues to hold his position under King Aegon II Targaryen. When his daughter Alicent became queen, he began plotting to put her eldest son Aegon on the Iron Throne, instead of Rhaenyra.
Steve Toussaint as Lord Corlys Velaryon, The Lord of Driftmark and head of House Velaryon, one of the wealthiest and most powerful families in the Seven Kingdoms. Known as “the Sea Snake”, he is the most famous seafarer in Westerosi history.
Eve Best as Princess Rhaenys Targaryen: King Viserys I Targaryen's older cousin and the wife of Lord Corlys Velaryon. Rhaenys is the only child of Prince Aemon Targaryen, King Jaehaerys I Targaryen's late heir apparent and oldest son, and Jocelyn Baratheon, Jaehaerys' half-sister. Known as the "Queen Who Never Was", she was once a candidate to succeed her grandfather as ruler of the Seven Kingdoms, but was passed over in favor of her younger cousin Viserys due to her gender. She is a formidable dragonrider who rides the dragon Meleys, also known as the "Red Queen".
Sonoya Mizuno as Mysaria: A foreign-born brothel dancer who rose to become Prince Daemon Targaryen's paramour and most trusted confidante until they eventually parted ways. She is later known as the "White Worm" and leads a network of spies throughout King's Landing.
Fabien Frankel as Ser Criston Cole: A skilled swordsman from the Dornish Marches and the common-born son of the steward to the Lord of Blackhaven, who is hand-picked by Princess Rhaenyra to become a member of King Viserys I Targaryen's Kingsguard. He later replaces Ser Harrold Westerling as Lord Commander of the Kingsguard following the ascension of King Aegon II Targaryen.
Olivia Cooke as Queen / Dowager Queen Alicent Hightower: Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen's childhood companion and best friend, and later the second wife and queen consort of King Viserys I Targaryen. She is raised in the Red Keep as part of the King's inner circle and is known as the most comely woman in the court.
Emily Carey portrays young Lady / Queen Alicent Hightower (season 1).
Graham McTavish as Ser Harrold Westerling: A seasoned knight of the Kingsguard who has served the Crown since King Jaehaerys I Targaryen. He was tasked with watching over and protecting Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen. He later replaces Ser Ryam Redwyne as the Lord Commander of the Kingsguard.
Matthew Needham as Lord Larys Strong: The younger son of Lord Lyonel Strong, he is known as "Clubfoot" due to a birth abnormality that causes him to walk with a limp. He is Queen Alicent's trusted confidant and later serves as the Lord Confessor.
Jefferson Hall as identical twins
Lord Jason Lannister: The Lord of Casterly Rock, head of House Lannister and Warden of the West. An arrogant hunter and a warrior, he unsuccessfully vies for the hand of Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen.
Ser Tyland Lannister: Lord Jason Lannister's younger twin brother and a cunning politician. He replaces Lord Corlys Velaryon as Master of Ships on King Viserys I Targaryen's small council. He later replaces Lord Lyman Beesbury as the Master of Coin following the ascension of King Aegon II Targaryen.
Harry Collett as Prince Jacaerys "Jace" Velaryon: The firstborn son of Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen and Ser Laenor Velaryon. He is a dragonrider who rides the young dragon Vermax.
Leo Hart portrays young Jacaerys Velaryon (recurring season 1).
Tom Glynn-Carney as Prince / King Aegon II Targaryen: The sixth king of the Seven Kingdoms. He is the firstborn son of King Viserys I Targaryen and Queen Alicent Hightower, half-brother to Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen, husband of his sister-wife Helaena Targaryen, and father to her children Jaehaerys, Jaehaera and Maelor. Despite the best efforts of his mother, his hedonism and depravity is legendary in King's Landing's Street of Silk. He is a dragonrider who rides the young dragon Sunfyre.
Ty Tennant portrays young Prince Aegon Targaryen (recurring season 1).
Ewan Mitchell as Prince Aemond Targaryen: The third child and second son of King Viserys I Targaryen and Queen Alicent Hightower. He aspires to be a dragonrider and later claims the dragon Vhagar. He is known as "Aemond One-Eye" after losing his left eye in a brawl with his nephews and has grown to become a fearsome and aggressive warrior.
Leo Ashton portrays young Prince Aemond Targaryen (recurring season 1).
Phia Saban as Princess / Queen Helaena Targaryen: The secondborn child and only daughter of King Viserys I Targaryen and Queen Alicent Hightower, sister-wife of King Aegon II Targaryen, and mother to his children. She has a unique interest in bugs and often speaks in cryptic prophetic language. She is a dragonrider who rides the dragon Dreamfyre.
Evie Allen portrays young Princess Helaena Targaryen (recurring season 1).
Bethany Antonia as Lady Baela Targaryen: The elder daughter of Prince Daemon Targaryen and Lady Laena Velaryon. She is a dragonrider who rides the young dragon Moondancer.
Shani Smethurst portrays young Baela Targaryen (recurring season 1).
Phoebe Campbell as Lady Rhaena Targaryen: The younger daughter of Prince Daemon Targaryen and Lady Laena Velaryon. She is in possession of a dragon egg, although it has yet to hatch.
Eva Ossei-Gerning portrays a young Rhaena Targaryen (recurring season 1).
Recurring[edit]
Gavin Spokes as Lord Lyonel Strong (season 1): The Lord of Harrenhal and head of House Strong, and Master of Laws on King Viserys I Targaryen's small council. He later replaces Ser Otto Hightower as the Hand of the King.
David Horovitch as Grand Maester Mellos (season 1): A maester of the Citadel and Grand Maester on King Viserys I Targaryen's small council, as well as serving as his personal physician.
Bill Paterson as Lord Lyman Beesbury (season 1): The Lord of Honeyholt and head of House Beesbury, and Master of Coin on King Viserys I Targaryen's small council.
Steffan Rhodri as Lord Hobert Hightower: The Lord of Oldtown and head of House Hightower, and the older brother of Ser Otto Hightower.
John Macmillan as Ser Laenor Velaryon: The son of Lord Corlys Velaryon and Princess Rhaenys Targaryen, and later the husband of Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen. He is a dragonrider who rides the dragon Seasmoke.
Theo Nate portrays young Laenor Velaryon (season 1).
Matthew Carver portrays child Laenor Velaryon (season 1).
Nanna Blondell as Lady Laena Velaryon (season 1): The daughter of Lord Corlys Velaryon and Princess Rhaenys Targaryen, and later the second wife of Prince Daemon Targaryen. She is a dragonrider who rides the old, legendary dragon Vhagar.
Savannah Steyn portrays a young Laena Velaryon (season 1).
Nova Foueillis-Mosé portrays child Laena Velaryon (season 1).
Elliott Tittensor as Ser Erryk Cargyll: The twin brother of Ser Arryk Cargyll and a member of King Viserys I Targaryen's Kingsguard and later Queen Rhaenyra Targaryen's Queensguard.
Luke Tittensor as Ser Arryk Cargyll: The twin brother of Ser Erryk Cargyll and a member of the Kingsguard for both King Viserys I Targaryen and his successor King Aegon II Targaryen.
Anthony Flanagan as Ser Steffon Darklyn: A member of King Viserys I Targaryen's Kingsguard and later Queen Rhaenyra Targaryen's Queensguard.
Max Wrottesley as Ser Lorent Marbrand: A member of King Viserys I Targaryen's Kingsguard and later Queen Rhaenyra Targaryen's Queensguard.
Ryan Corr as Ser Harwin Strong (season 1): The eldest son of Lord Lyonel Strong and heir to Harrenhal. Known as "Breakbones", he is said to be the strongest man in the Seven Kingdoms. He was Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen's secret lover and the biological father of her first three sons.
Wil Johnson as Ser Vaemond Velaryon (season 1): The younger brother of Lord Corlys Velaryon, and a commander in the Velaryon navy.
Kurt Egyiawan as Grand Maester Orwyle: A maester of the Citadel who replaces Mellos as Grand Maester on King Viserys I Targaryen's small council and continues to hold his position under King Aegon II Targaryen.
Elliot Grihault as Prince Lucerys "Luke" Velaryon (season 1): The secondborn son of Princess Rhaenyra Targaryen and Ser Laenor Velaryon. He is a dragonrider who rides the young dragon Arrax.
Harvey Sadler portrays young Lucerys Velaryon (season 1).
Paul Kennedy as Lord Jasper Wylde: The Lord of Rain House and head of House Wylde. Known as "Ironrod", he replaces Lord Lyonel Strong as Master of Laws on King Viserys I Targaryen's small council and continues to hold his position under King Aegon II Targaryen.
Alexis Raben as Talya (season 1): Queen Alicent Hightower's lady-in-waiting and a spy for Mysaria.
Paul Hickey as Lord Allun Caswell (season 1): The Lord of Bitterbridge and head of House Caswell.
Phil Daniels as Maester Gerardys: The Maester of Dragonstone.
Guests[edit]
Sian Brooke as Queen Aemma Arryn (season 1): The queen consort and first wife of King Viserys I Targaryen and Rhaenyra's mother. She is a granddaughter of King Jaehaerys I Targaryen through her mother, Princess Daella Targaryen, making Viserys her first cousin.
Michael Carter as King Jaehaerys I Targaryen (season 1): The fourth king of the Seven Kingdoms. He is the grandfather of King Viserys I Targaryen, Prince Daemon Targaryen, Princess Rhaenys Targaryen and Queen Aemma Arryn. Known as the "Conciliator" or the "Old King", he ruled for over half a century and ended up outliving all his children, and eventually had to organize a great council to choose an heir from his grandchildren. He was a dragonrider and rode the dragon Vermithor.
Garry Cooper as Ser Ryam Redwyne (season 1): The aging Lord Commander of King Viserys I Targaryen's Kingsguard.
Julian Lewis Jones as Lord Boremund Baratheon (season 1): The Lord of Storm's End, head of House Baratheon and Lord Paramount of the Stormlands. He is also a maternal cousin of Princess Rhaenys Targaryen and is the great-grandson of house-founder Orys Baratheon, the half-brother of King Aegon the Conqueror.
Daniel Scott-Smith as Craghas Drahar (season 1): A Myrish prince-admiral who leads the Triarchy in conquering the Stepstones, plaguing the Westerosi sea trade. He is known as the "Crabfeeder" for his practice of crucifying and feeding his captured enemies to crabs.
Solly McLeod as Ser Joffrey Lonmouth (season 1): A knight of House Lonmouth, the battle companion and lover to Ser Laenor Velaryon.
Rachel Redford as Lady Rhea Royce (season 1): The heir to Runestone, the seat of House Royce, and Prince Daemon Targaryen's estranged first wife.
Owen Oakeshott as Ser Gerold Royce: A cousin of Lady Rhea Royce.
Arty Froushan as Ser Qarl Correy (season 1): A household knight and lover of Ser Laenor Velaryon.
Dean Nolan as Prince Reggio Haratis: The ruler of the Free City of Pentos.
Maddie Evans as Dyana (season 1): A handmaid raped by then Prince Aegon Targaryen.
Roger Evans as Lord Borros Baratheon: The son of Lord Boremund Baratheon who succeeds him as Lord of Storm's End and Lord Paramount of the Stormlands.
Nicholas Jones as Lord Bartimos Celtigar: The Lord of Claw Isle and head of House Celtigar. He is part of a council of lords and knights that support Rhaenyra's claim to the throne.
Episodes[edit]
No.TitleDirected byWritten byOriginal air dateU.S. viewers(millions)1"The Heirs of the Dragon"Miguel SapochnikRyan CondalAugust 21, 2022 (2022-08-21)2.17[6]
With both his sons dead, old King Jaehaerys I Targaryen convenes a Great Council to choose an heir. The Westerosi lords select Jaehaerys' eldest grandson, Prince Viserys, over Princess Rhaenys, the eldest grandchild. Nine years into his reign, King Viserys organizes a tournament to celebrate Queen Aemma Arryn's pregnancy, confident she is carrying his long-awaited male heir. The Small Council disregards Master of Ships Lord Corlys Velaryon's warning that the Triarchy, an alliance of Essos' Free Cities, threatens to cripple Westerosi shipping lanes. Hand of the King, Ser Otto Hightower, criticizes Viserys's brother and heir, Prince Daemon, for his brutality as the City Watch commander. At the tournament, the young, handsome Ser Criston Cole, a common-born knight, outcompetes Daemon. Meanwhile, Viserys sacrifices Aemma in childbirth, performing a C-section Aemma pleads against, and their newborn son, Baelon, dies shortly after. Viserys refuses the council's pleas to appoint a new heir until Otto reveals that Daemon mockingly styled Baelon as, "The Heir for a Day." Outraged, Viserys banishes Daemon from King's Landing and appoints his only living child, Princess Rhaenyra, heir to the Iron Throne, revealing to her Aegon the Conqueror's dream that inspired him to unify Westeros.
2"The Rogue Prince"Greg YaitanesRyan CondalAugust 28, 2022 (2022-08-28)2.26[7]
Six months after Rhaenyra is named as heir, Daemon has illegally occupied Dragonstone, supported by loyal City Watch guards. When Prince-Admiral Craghas Drahar, known as the Crabfeeder, menaces the Stepstones archipelago at the Essos Triarchy's behest, Rhaenyra suggests showing force. The Small Council dismisses this and Rhaenyra is instead relegated to appointing a new Kingsguard knight. Ignoring others' advice, she chooses Ser Criston, the only knight with actual battle experience. Ser Otto sends his teen-aged daughter, Lady Alicent, to privately console the grieving king; she advises that Viserys and Rhaenyra should discuss his kingly duty to remarry. Lord Corlys and his wife, Princess Rhaenys, propose that Viserys unite their Valyrian houses by marrying their twelve-year-old daughter, Laena. Meanwhile, the Small Council learns that Daemon, proclaiming himself the true heir, stole a dragon egg and intends to marry his mistress, Mysaria, as a secondary spouse. Otto and a small detachment sail to Dragonstone to retrieve the egg. Rhaenyra follows on her dragon, Syrax, and forces Daemon to renounce his false claims and give her the egg. Viserys announces that he intends to wed Alicent, angering Corlys, who approaches Daemon to propose an alliance.
3"Second of His Name"Greg YaitanesGabe Fonseca & Ryan CondalSeptember 4, 2022 (2022-09-04)1.75[8]
For three years, Lord Corlys and Prince Daemon have battled Craghas Drahar and his pirates in the Stepstones without the Iron Throne's support. Meanwhile, King Viserys plans a great hunt to celebrate his and pregnant Queen Alicent's son Aegon's second birthday. Rhaenyra resents her father's excessive attention towards her half-brother, Aegon. The ailing king insists that Rhaenyra, now seventeen, must marry to form a strong alliance and protect their lineage. Many suitors are considered, including two-year old Prince Aegon. Lord Lyonel Strong recommends Ser Laenor Velaryon, Lord Corlys' son, as a potential match to mend the rift between the two houses. Overcoming previous doubts, Viserys assures Rhaenyra she remains his heir and can choose her consort. Meanwhile, brothers Hobert and Otto Hightower secretly scheme to make Aegon the successor, furthering their family's power and prestige. After Ser Vaemond Velaryon pleads for the king's help, Viserys agrees to send aid to the Stepstones. Seeing his brother's support as ending his chance to prove himself, Daemon acts as bait to ambush the Triarchy warriors, killing the Crabfeeder and winning the ensuing battle before the crown's forces arrive.
4"King of the Narrow Sea"Clare KilnerIra ParkerSeptember 11, 2022 (2022-09-11)1.81[9]
After an unsuccessful months-long tour to choose a consort, Rhaenyra returns to King's Landing. Daemon also returns after conquering most of the Stepstones. Now named "King of the Narrow Sea", Daemon swears allegiance to Viserys and hands over his crown. As the reunited brothers celebrate, Alicent and Rhaenyra reconcile. After dark, Daemon and Rhaenyra sneak out to explore King's Landing, drinking, attending a bawdy play, and visiting a brothel. Daemon seduces a willing Rhaenyra, but unable to consummate their affair, he abandons her there. Returning to the Red Keep, Rhaenyra utilizes her position to coerce Ser Criston into having sex. Informed by the White Worm's spy, Ser Otto tells the king about Daemon and Rhaenyra's carousing. Alicent overhears and privately questions Rhaenyra, who swears against the accusations. Viserys confronts Daemon who, hungover and disheveled, seemingly confirms the rumors and proposes he wed Rhaenyra. Viserys claims Daemon only wants the crown and exiles him to the Vale. To avoid scandal and strengthen the throne, Viserys orders Rhaenyra to marry Ser Laenor Velaryon. Viserys dismisses Otto as his Hand after Rhaenyra accuses Otto of manipulating him for his personal gain. Grand Maester Mellos gives Rhaenyra a precautionary abortifacient tea at Viserys' request.
5"We Light the Way"Clare KilnerCharmaine DeGratéSeptember 18, 2022 (2022-09-18)1.83[10]
In the Vale, Daemon murders his wife, Lady Rhea Royce. Rhaenyra and Ser Laenor Velaryon are betrothed, mollifying Lord Corlys. Understanding Laenor's homosexuality, Rhaenyra proposes fulfilling their royal duties to produce heirs, while being free to pursue their own lovers. Ser Criston is humiliated when Rhaenyra declines his proposal to elope to Essos and assume new identities; she prefers their current sexual liaison. Before departing King's Landing, Ser Otto warns Queen Alicent that Rhaenyra becoming queen makes Alicent's children a threat to the crown, for they are the King’s sons. Alicent questions Criston about Rhaenyra and Daemon, but misunderstanding, he confesses to being Rhaenyra's lover. During Rhaenyra and Laenor's betrothal celebration, Alicent enters, interrupting Viserys' speech, wearing a green gown, the signal color for House Hightower's call to arms. Daemon also unexpectedly attends. Confronted by Rhea's cousin, Daemon denies murdering her and wishes to assert his claim to inherit her lands. Laenor's lover, Ser Joffrey Lonmouth, surmises Criston is Rhaenyra's paramour. When Criston believes Joffrey is threatening blackmail, he brutally kills him, devastating Laenor and horrifying guests. Rhaenyra and Laenor are privately wed late that night. Viserys collapses after the ceremony. Meanwhile, Alicent intervenes as a disgraced Criston is about to commit suicide.
6"The Princess and the Queen"Miguel SapochnikSara HessSeptember 25, 2022 (2022-09-25)1.86[11]
Ten years later, Rhaenyra has given birth to three sons—Jacaerys, Lucerys, and newborn Joffrey. All lack the Valyrian platinum hair, but King Viserys rejects Queen Alicent's assertion that Ser Laenor is not their father. Alicent tells Aegon he must prepare to one day dispute Rhaenyra’s claim for the Iron Throne, as he, Viserys’s firstborn son, will always be a threat to her claim, and his life would not be safe if she were to take the throne. Daemon and his wife, Laena Velaryon, visit Pentos with daughters Baela and Rhaena. The prince offers them a lordship in exchange for an alliance against a resurgent Triarchy. Unable to give birth after an agonizing labor, Laena commands her dragon Vhagar to incinerate her. Ser Criston, now serving Alicent, goads Ser Harwin into attacking him by implying that Harwin fathered Rhaenyra's children. To ease family strife, Rhaenyra proposes Jacaerys marry Helaena, Alicent's daughter, which Alicent rejects. Shortly after, a disgraced Ser Harwin bids Rhaenyra and her sons farewell before his father, Hand of the King Ser Lyonel Strong escorts him to Harrenhal castle. Alicent confides to Ser Lyonel's younger son, Larys, that she wishes her father, Ser Otto, was still the king's Hand. Larys recruits three criminals to set a fire at Harrenhal, killing Lyonel and Harwin. Rhaenyra moves her household to Dragonstone, also bringing Laenor's lover, Ser Qarl Correy.
7"Driftmark"Miguel SapochnikKevin LauOctober 2, 2022 (2022-10-02)1.88[12]
King Viserys and his court attend Lady Laena's funeral in Driftmark. Rhaenyra and Daemon reunite and are physically intimate. Meanwhile, Viserys fails to reconcile with Daemon. Prince Aemond claims Vhagar as his dragon, causing an altercation with his cousins and nephews in which Lucerys slashes Aemond's eye with a knife. Seeking justice, Queen Alicent lunges at Lucerys with Viserys' Valyrian steel dagger to gouge out his eye. Rhaenyra blocks Alicent, but injures herself in the process. After claims that Rhaenyra's sons are bastards, Viserys decrees anyone questioning their legitimacy will have their tongues removed. Later, Hand of the King, Otto Hightower assures Alicent they will prevail, while Rhaenyra and Daemon unite against Alicent and her family. To continue the true Velaryon lineage, Princess Rhaenys suggests that Lord Corlys pass his title through his granddaughter, Baela by marriage to Prince Lucerys, as Laenor has not sired any children. Ser Qarl appears to murder Laenor, with an overwhelmed and inconsolable Rhaenys and Corlys believing a charred body to be their son's. Daemon and Rhaenyra privately marry in the old Valyrian Dragonlord tradition to perpetuate the Targaryen bloodline. After faking his death, Laenor secretly escapes Driftmark with Qarl.
8"The Lord of the Tides"Geeta Vasant PatelEileen ShimOctober 9, 2022 (2022-10-09)1.73[13]
Six years on, Lord Corlys Velaryon is severely wounded fighting in the Stepstones. His brother, Ser Vaemond, petitions King's Landing to name him Corlys' heir, proclaiming Rhaenyra's son, Lucerys, illegitimate. Rhaenyra and Daemon return to the capital to defend Lucerys' claim. King Viserys is now bedridden, disfigured, and mentally muddled. Queen Alicent and the king's Hand, Otto Hightower, oversee all royal matters. Alicent covers-up Prince Aegon raping a handmaiden. Rhaenyra proposes two marriage arrangements with House Velaryon to gain Princess Rhaenys' support. She implores Viserys to defend her succession, quoting Aegon the Conqueror's dream about the Prince That Was Promised. As Vaemond's petition is presented at court, Viserys, barely ambulatory, enters and declares Lucerys the Driftmark heir. Daemon beheads Vaemond when he denounces Rhaenyra as a whore and her children bastards. The family appears to reconcile during a feast, but after Viserys departs, Aemond incites a fight by insinuating Rhaenyra's three eldest sons are illegitimate. Meanwhile, Alicent's lady-in-waiting, Talya, regularly provides Daemon's former mistress, Mysaria, with information. Viserys, near death, mutters parts of Aegon the Conqueror's dream, which Alicent believes refers to their son, Aegon.
9"The Green Council"Clare KilnerSara HessOctober 16, 2022 (2022-10-16)1.56[14]
After Viserys' death, Ser Otto and the Small Council plot to crown Prince Aegon. Ser Criston kills Lord Beesbury, who opposed the scheme. Kingsguard Lord Commander Harrold Westerling resigns in protest. Otto keeps Viserys's death a secret to fortify the council's position, then coerces the noble houses to switch their allegiance to Aegon. Those resisting are imprisoned or hanged. Otto and Alicent discuss on whether to kill or exile Rhaenyra and separately rush to find and influence the missing Prince Aegon: Otto sends Kingsguard brothers Ser Erryk and Ser Arryk Cargyll, while Alicent tasks Criston and Prince Aemond. The Cargylls find Aegon first, but Criston and Aemond forcibly take him. Lord Larys tells Alicent that spies, including lady-in-waiting, Talya, are within the Red Keep. Alicent approves eliminating the head spy. Alicent persuades a resistant Aegon to claim his birthright. King's Landing citizens are herded into the Dragonpit to witness Aegon's coronation. Princess Rhaenys, refusing to support Aegon’s claim, is held captive. Erryk frees her and she enters the Dragonpit caverns. Astride her dragon Meleys, she violently breaches the grand hall underneath the oblivious civilians, causing mayhem and deaths; Meleys roars at the onlooking royals before Rhaenys flees King’s Landing on dragonback.
10"The Black Queen"Greg YaitanesRyan CondalOctober 23, 2022 (2022-10-23)1.85[15]
Princess Rhaenys arrives on Dragonstone to announce King Viserys's death and Prince Aegon ascending the throne; the news shocks Rhaenyra into premature labour and a stillbirth as Daemon pressures Rhaenyra to take to war. When Ser Erryk brings Viserys' crown, Rhaenyra is declared queen. Ser Otto Hightower presents King Aegon II's generous terms for Rhaenyra's concession, amongst them her rights to retain her title as a Royal Princess, her sons their rights to inherit Driftmark, and her rights to retain Dragonstone; Daemon is angered when Rhaenyra considers conceding to unify the realm against the Northern threat foretold by Aegon the Conqueror's dream. Enraged, he chokes Rhaenyra, realizing Viserys never told him about the dream when he was his heir. Lord Corlys pledges House Velaryon's allegiance to Rhaenyra's "Black" faction; Daemon plans to recruit more dragonriders and awakens a large dragon, Vermithor, hibernating in a cave. Princes Jacaerys and Lucerys are sent as envoys to secure Houses Arryn, Stark, and Baratheon as allies. Lucerys meets with Lord Borros Baratheon and discovers Prince Aemond is there. King Aegon II has offered Borros a political alliance through marriage between his daughter and Aemond. Borros asserts Rhaenyra has offered nothing. Lucerys flees on his dragon, Arrax, but Aemond pursues him on Vhagar. The fractious dragons defy their riders; Arrax burns Vhagar; Vhagar then devours Lucerys and Arrax, stunning Aemond. Rhaenyra is devastated and enraged upon receiving the news.
Production[edit]
Development[edit]
Inspiration for the series came from English medieval history and The Anarchy, a war of succession between the Henry I of England's nephew Stephen Of Blois and the King's only surviving child, Empress Matilda, who had fled to Normandy in the 12th century.[27][28][29] In January 2020, Casey Bloys, HBO's President of Programming, stated that writing had begun.[30] Writers for the show include Condal and Sara Hess, who previously wrote for Deadwood and Orange Is the New Black.[31] Martin was also involved in the pre-production, providing input on storylines and reviewed scripts and rough cuts.[32] On August 26, 2022, less than a week after its premiere, the series was renewed for a second season.[33] On August 31, Miguel Sapochnik stepped down as director and co-showrunner for the second season, but remained an executive producer. Sapochnik stated, "It was incredibly tough to decide to move on, but I know that it is the right choice for me, personally and professionally."[34] Alan Taylor, who directed Game of Thrones episodes, will join in season two and serve as an executive producer and direct.[35] Following the second season renewal, Bloys stated that the second season is expected to premiere in 2024.[36] Hess told Variety in late December 2022 that most of the season 2 has been written and will include a revenge plot against Alicent following the events of the first season finale.[37]
Changes from the novels[edit]
It was very important for Miguel and I to create a show that was not another bunch of white people on the screen. We wanted to find a way to put diversity in the show, but we didn't want to do it in a way that felt like it was an afterthought or, worse, tokenism.
Ryan Condal, July 2022 interview with Entertainment Weekly[38]
In the novels, members of House Velaryon are generally described as having "silver-gold hair, pale skin, and violet eyes", similar to the Targaryens.[39] However, Condal and Sapochnik wanted to introduce more racial diversity with its casting.[40] Game of Thrones was criticized for lacking a diverse cast and including cultural stereotypes.[41][42] As a result, House Velaryon are portrayed as black in the television series.[43] According to Condal, Martin, while writing the novels, considered making the Velaryons a house of Black aristocrats who traveled to Westeros from the culturally diverse area of Valyria.[43] Despite initial fan criticism of the ethnicity change,[44] publications and commentators stated it helped distinguish between the large number of characters between the two families.[45][46]
Fire & Blood is written in the style of a history book authored by an in-universe fictional historian studying the Targaryen dynasty and various civil conflicts.[47] The novels of A Song of Ice and Fire are however more immersive, with each chapter written in a third-person limited perspective from the immediate point of view of a character.[48] As a result, some accounts of events recorded in Fire & Blood are second-hand narrations that are potentially speculative or distorted, therefore making the narrator unreliable from the reader's perspective.[49] In an effort to make the story more clear for viewers, the show writers decided to portray the book events in a chronological order from a third-person perspective.[50]
Casting[edit]
Casting began in July 2020.[51] In October 2020, Paddy Considine was cast as Viserys I Targaryen.[52] Considine was offered a role in Game of Thrones but declined it due to the fantasy elements of the series.[53] Condal in a 2020 interview stated that Considine was their first choice for Viserys.[54] By December, Olivia Cooke, Matt Smith, and Emma D'Arcy were cast as Alicent Hightower, Daemon Targaryen, and Rhaenyra Targaryen, respectively.[55] In an interview with The Hollywood Reporter, Smith stated he was initially hesitant to starring in a Game of Thrones prequel. He then accepted the role after learning Considine was attached to the project.[56]
In February 2021, Rhys Ifans, Steve Toussaint, Eve Best, and Sonoya Mizuno were added to the main cast.[57] By April, Fabien Frankel joined the cast as Ser Criston Cole.[58] In May, Graham McTavish was spotted on set in full wardrobe.[59] In July 2021, Emily Carey and Milly Alcock were added to the cast as younger counterparts of Alicent Hightower and Rhaenyra Targaryen respectively.[60] The time jump midway through the first season necessitated the casting multiple characters with two or three different actors.[61]
Filming[edit]
Principal photography on the ten-episode first season of the series began in April 2021.[62] The series was filmed primarily in the United Kingdom.[63] House of the Dragon was the first production to be shot at Warner Bros. Leavesden Studios' new virtual production stage.[64] On July 18, 2021, a positive COVID-19 case forced the pausing of production for two days.[65] The Spanish publication Hoy reported that House of the Dragon would be filmed in the Province of Cáceres in western Spain between October 11–21, 2021.[66] The provincial capital of Cáceres along with the town of Trujillo were used in scenes for King's Landing.[67] From October 26–31, the series was filmed in Portugal at the Castle of Monsanto.[68]
Additional filming locations included Trujillo, Cáceres, a medieval town. Locations in Cornwall, England included St Michael's Mount, Holywell Beach and Kynance Cove. Other locations included Castleton, Derbyshire, in areas such as Cave Dale, Eldon Hill Quarry and the Market Place. Some scenes were shot in Aldershot, Hampshire.[69] In February 2022, HBO confirmed that the first season of House of the Dragon had wrapped production.[70] Visual effects for the series were produced in part by Pixomondo, who worked on Game of Thrones and gained an Emmy Award for Outstanding Visual Effects.[71][72][73]
The second season is set to begin filming in Spain on March 6, 2023.[74][75] In October 2022, it was reported that the OSVP stage at Leavesden Studios, used in the series, was shutting down.[76]
Music[edit]
Main article: House of the Dragon: Season 1 (soundtrack)
It was announced in September 2022 that Ramin Djawadi will compose the series score.[77]
Djawadi composed the music for all eight seasons of Game of Thrones which garnered him three Grammy Awards nominations and two Emmy Awards wins.[78][77] Djawadi, along with the showrunners, decided to keep the original theme song, "Game of Thrones Theme", which was first featured in the second episode of House of the Dragon.[79] In an interview with The A.V. Club, Djawadi stated that the original theme song was used in order to "tie the shows together".[80] For the first season, Djawadi, along with Condal and Sapochnik, watched each episode and made notes on when the music should occur and what mood the music should set.[81] Character motifs from Game of Thrones are also featured in House of the Dragon, including the Dragon theme "Dracarys".[82]
Language[edit]
Game of Thrones linguist David J. Peterson returned to continue his work on the constructed language High Valyrian.[83] Peterson stated that, unlike Game of Thrones, House of the Dragon features scene-long dialogue in High Valyrian.[84] In the series, High Valyrian is spoken by both Targaryens and Velaryons, requiring cast members to learn the language.[85] Emma D'Arcy reportedly enjoyed learning it, while Matt Smith initially dreaded it and found it daunting.[86]
Budget[edit]
The overall production budget of the first season of House of the Dragon was nearly $200 million, which equates to under $20 million per episode.[87] In comparison, its parent series Game of Thrones, cost around $100 million per season beginning with nearly $6 million per episode from seasons one to five, around $10 million for every episode in seasons six and seven, and up to $15 million each episode in its eighth and final season, earning $285 million in profits per season over its eight seasons.[88][89] The marketing budget, according to Deadline Hollywood, was in excess of $100 million, comparable to the marketing budget for a blockbuster theatrical film.[90]
Release[edit]
House of the Dragon premiered on August 21, 2022.[91] It is HBO's first new series to stream in 4K, Dolby Vision HDR and Dolby Atmos on its streaming platform HBO Max.[92] The first episode was released for free on YouTube on September 2, 2022.[93] The first-season finale was leaked online the week before the actual air date, with the full episode appearing on torrent sites.[94] According to HBO, the leak came from a Europe, the Middle East and Africa partner and it will "aggressively" monitor for additional leaks.[95]
International broadcast[edit]
See also: List of HBO international channels
In New Zealand, the series is distributed by Sky's SoHo TV channel and Neon streaming service.[96] In the Philippines, SKY broadcasts the show via its main cable television services and other digital streaming platforms.[97] In India, Disney+ Hotstar distributes the show.[98] In the UK, Ireland, Italy, Germany, Austria and Switzerland, the series airs on Sky Atlantic and its accompanying streaming service Now.[99] In Canada, House of the Dragon is available on Bell Media's Crave streaming service and its HBO linear channel.[100] In Australia, the series is available for streaming on Binge and Foxtel.[101]
Home media[edit]
The first season was released on 4K UHD Blu-ray, standard Blu-ray, and DVD on December 20, 2022, and contains over an hour of behind-the-scenes features.[102]
Reception[edit]
Critical response[edit]
House of the Dragon: Critical reception by episode
Percentage of positive critics' reviews tracked by the website Rotten Tomatoes[103]
On the review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes, the series holds an approval rating of 93%, based on 861 reviews, with an average rating of 7.9. The website's critical consensus said, "Covering an era of tenuous peace with ferocious -- albeit abbreviated -- focus, House of the Dragon is an impressive prequel that exemplifies the court intrigue that distinguished its predecessor."[103] On Metacritic, which uses a weighted average, the series has received a score of 69 out of 100 based on 43 critic reviews, indicating "generally favorable reviews".[104]
Reviews for the first season were generally positive, with critics praising the writing, directing, and cast performances.[105] Lucy Mangan of The Guardian called the show a "roaring success" with Lorraine Ali of the Los Angeles Times stating the show mirrors the acclaim of the early seasons of Game of Thrones.[106][107] Reviews pointed out the reliance on Martin's novel was one of the reasons the series fared better critically than the later seasons of its predecessor, specifically the last season.[108][109] The cast also received praise, with Paddy Considine, Matt Smith, Emma D'Arcy, and Olivia Cooke being singled out for their performances.[110] In an interview with GQ, Considine stated that Martin told him that "Your Viserys is better than my Viserys".[111] The diversity of the characters was met with praise,[112][113][114] with Jeff Yang of The New York Times stating that diversification of the cast can help the series gain a more diverse audience.[115] The series was included on multiple critics' top ten television series lists of 2022, including Chicago Tribune, San Francisco Chronicle, CNN, and Polygon.[116]
Despite the praise, the show's first season did receive criticism for the depiction of violence, pacing and cinematography. Reviewing the early episodes, Rolling Stone and Entertainment Weekly said the series leaned too much on grand imagery and lacked the breakout supporting characters that Game of Thrones had.[117][118] Before the premiere, Martin stated that the series is similar to a Shakespearean tragedy with each character being morally grey with no "character everybody's going to love".[119] The Guardian stated the "dullness" of the characters makes the series more of a period drama than an action-adventure fantasy.[120] The Los Angeles Times and The New York Times cited the constant actor changes as a reason for the lack of emotional attachment to characters.[121][122] The graphic violence in the season premiere with a failed caesarean section was criticized for being excessive and, according to USA Today, "exploitive and in poor taste".[123][124][125] The time jumps throughout the first season were also noted for being jarring and causing confusion,[126][127] while George R. R. Martin defended them as being "handled very well".[128][129] In addition, the dark cinematography in Episode 7 was a point of criticism from both critics and fans alike.[130][131] HBO responded that the dimmed lighting in those scenes was an "intentional creative decision".[132] Game of Thrones faced similar criticism regarding the lighting of scenes in Season 8, with one of the show's cinematographers stating it was a "deliberate choice".[133][134]
Viewership[edit]
The day after the series premiere, HBO said the episode had been viewed by an estimated 9.99 million viewers in the U.S. on its first night of availability – including linear viewers and streams on HBO Max – which HBO said was the largest single-day viewership for a series debut in the service's history, dethroning Euphoria.[135] When renewing the show for a second season four days later, the network said the episode had been watched by over 20 million linear, streaming, and on-demand viewers in the U.S. by that point.[136] After one week of availability, the viewership rose to nearly 25 million in the U.S. across all platforms.[137] Internationally, the series premiere drew more than 1 million viewers when it aired on Sky Atlantic in the United Kingdom, becoming the biggest drama premiere on the channel.[138]
According to Nielsen, the episode had a viewership of 327 million minutes or an estimated 5.03 million viewers on HBO Max in the U.S. during its first day.[139][b] It later estimated that the episode was watched by 10.6 million viewers on HBO Max in the first four days, with the number increasing to 14.5 million when including the viewership on the main HBO channel.[140] Samba TV meanwhile stated that 4.8 million U.S. households streamed the episode in the first four days.[141]
The size of the audience during the show's premiere caused HBO Max to crash for some users, particularly those using Amazon Fire TV devices.[142][143] Downdetector reported 3,700 instances of the application not responding.[142] There were also reports of widespread streaming issues on Canadian partner service Crave.[144] Whip Media, who track viewership data for the 22 million worldwide users of their TV Time app, stated that it was the most-viewed debut for a show in the app's history based on viewership over three days following the premiere.[141] The series was also popular on social media, with the show premiere being the number one trending topic on Twitter and Google Trends.[145]
The finale of the first season was watched by 9.3 million viewers across all platforms during its premiere night according to HBO, which was the highest viewership for any finale of a HBO show since the series finale of Game of Thrones. The show averaged 9–9.5 million viewers for an episode on premiere night and 29 million total viewers after a week of release.[146]
Nielsen stated in November 2022 that 35% of the viewers of the show were in the age range of 18–34.[147] Similar to Game of Thrones, the first season of House of the Dragon was extensively pirated.[148] According to TorrentFreak, it was the most pirated series of 2022, beating out The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power and other series.[149]
Comparisons with The Rings of Power[edit]
Critics, fans, and publications have drawn comparisons between House of the Dragon and fantasy series The Lord of the Rings: The Rings of Power on Amazon Prime Video. The Rings of Power is a prequel series set thousands of years before the events of J. R. R. Tolkien's The Hobbit and The Lord of the Rings, while House of the Dragon is a prequel series set before Game of Thrones.[150] The similar fantasy genre, close release dates, and extensive fan bases were cited in articles comparing the two series.[3][151][152] Commentators and fans alike have described these comparisons as the "biggest battle in TV history".[153][154] More negative criticism from the two fan bases also included the character diversity, with some publications describing some of the criticism as racist.[155][156][157][158] Martin stated that although he hopes both shows are successful, he wants to see House of the Dragon "succeed more."[159] Lindsey Weber, an executive producer for The Rings of Power, stated that the head-to-head conflict between the two shows are "totally manufactured by the media for headlines".[154] Show co-creator J. D. Payne said the only competition he sees is with "themselves"; however, he wishes well for "anyone else working on storytelling".[160]
Financially, the budget for The Rings of Power is almost $450 million more than House of the Dragon.[87] Both series fared successfully in the ratings.[161] According to Nielsen and first-party data, The Rings of Power's first two episodes had more than 1.25 billion minutes of streaming minutes after three days of availability. In comparison, a few hours after the episode two premiere of House of the Dragon, the show had reached more than 1.06 billion minutes of streaming minutes.[c][140][162] Following the season finale for House of the Dragon, weekly streaming viewership passed 1 billion viewing minutes for the first time.[162] According to Nielsen data, The Rings of Power has a higher percentage of older viewers, with more than 70% of viewers being over the age of 35.[163] Following both series finales, streaming viewership for The Rings of Power decreased throughout the first season while House of the Dragon viewership increased.[164] Despite the age gap in viewership, commentators have stated one of the reasons both shows did well was the consistent release schedule that helped create social-media buzz.[165][166] Both shows have highlighted the "streaming wars" between both Amazon and HBO and the entertainment industry as a whole.[167][168][169]
